# The Elara Handbook

The Elara Handbook is Project Elara's open knowledge repository and documentation. Everything you'd ever need to learn, develop, or contribute to Project Elara can be found here!

:warning: The handbook is actively developed and will not be complete for quite a while. Patience is appreciated!

## About the Handbook

The Elara Handbook is written in Markdown and Jupyter notebooks (with exception of the API docs, generated by Rust's native documentation generator) using JupyterBook.

We recommend [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) for editing the markdown source. Open the `book/` directory in Obsidian as a vault of existing files, and then you can edit as usual.

## Licensing

The Elara Handbook is dual-licensed under the [Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal License](Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal) as well as [The Unlicense](https://unlicense.org/) as it contains both textual content and source code. Whichever is more permissive in a given jurisdiction will be regarded as the license to be applied across the whole work.

## Handbook issues

All issues will documented and put on https://github.com/elaraproject/elara-handbook.

## Roadmap

- [x] Finish basic setup and github pages integration with CI
- [x] Knowledge library (mathematical fundamentals, physics, machine learning, Rust, etc.)
- [ ] Proper citations
- [x] Narrative docs (tutorials, guides, etc.)
- [ ] API documentation
- [x] Community resource docs (governance, design documents, contributing guidelines)
- [ ] Translations w/ weblate
